I was raised by my mother in the small village.
At a very young age, my mother taught me how to read and write.
She used various charts and publications.
After the meetings, my mother would share what she enjoyed at the meetings
and would ask us what we enjoyed.
So, it was important for me to listen carefully at the meetings and take notes
because I also had to tell her what I'd enjoyed.
As I was getting a better understanding of what I was reading,
that stirred in me a desire to comment and Japan to comment at the meetings in my own words.
Commenting at the meetings made me feel part of the congregation
and made me enjoy the meetings even more.
Also, that made me want to do more for Jehovah.
Like most teenagers, I enjoy texting.
But I learned that I can show personal interests better by having face-to-face conversations.
As I worked on doing that, my communication skills improved.
In addition, the training in our organization helped me to find a job to support pioneering.
When I was asked to be a tutor for a couple's son,
I told them that I hadn't taken any courses for it,
but that we were taught how to teach well at the weekly meetings of Jehovah's Witnesses.
They said, oh, we really like the way you talk.
Please start tutoring our son tomorrow.
I come from Germany. I was born in Kohlberg.
I went to the meetings. I went in the ministry.
But my heart wasn't there.
Since I was so focused on my own feelings,
it was hard for me to show personal interests in others.
My roommate often took me along in her studies.
She cried together with them when they cried.
She was more than just a Bible teacher to them.
She was really a friend.
I learned to love people more.
As a result of a more intense relationship with Jehovah,
and a deeper love for people in the ministry,
it brings me more joy.
I grew up in a family of farmers.
My parents trained us to do household chores.
When I worked secular,
there was a trap in earning a lot of money and becoming materialistic.
But the training our parents gave us when we were kids
helped me to keep my life simple.
So at work, when I was offered overtime for higher salary,
I didn't accept it, even if it meant a lower salary.
And a wake article also helped me a lot.
It mentioned there how to budget money using envelopes
marked with daily expenses, like this one.
And it has helped me a lot to stay content
and not spend money on things I don't need.
And it helped me to focus on my pioneering.
I wanted to be able to devote everything I had to Jehovah's service.
But there were times when I wanted to go to university
and see how far I could go in this world.
Instead of letting my feelings dictate what I should do,
I decided to think things through.
I thought of Paul's example.
He had received education and he had riches, fame and position.
However, he said they were rubbish to him.
If that was the case, I thought whatever I would be gaining
would be even more worthless.
I chose to work part-time as a water meter reader.
I had dedicated myself to Jehovah,
so I wanted to give him back my all.
I was able to spend more time in Jehovah's service.
When I was young, I used to dream of becoming someone important.
I used to think when I turned 18,
I would be appointed as a ministerial servant.
But when the time came, I wasn't appointed as a ministerial servant.
I was really disappointed.
Then my mom encouraged me to think about Moses' example.
He thought he had all the qualities and skills
to lead the nation of Israel.
But Jehovah knew that he wasn't quite ready.
And he hadn't cultivated humility.
I stopped focusing on myself
and started to think about others
paying attention to what they needed.
I was determined to accept whatever work I was assigned to do in the congregation.
And this has helped me to work well with the brothers
and to serve unitedly and with joy.
When I was 23 years old, I started pioneering.
Then I was invited to SKE
and I was assigned to go to Albania as a missionary.
I became a pioneer.
Now I'm a translator in the remote translation office.
I married a brother who had similar spiritual goals as me.
We pioneered together for two years,
and then we got the wonderful opportunity to service construction servants.
I pioneered for about two years.
Then I was invited to Bethel and I served in the binary.
I started pioneering.
Then I received an invitation to attend SKE.
I am currently serving here in the service department in the Philippines branch.
I never thought that Jehovah would use me in such a manner.
No.
Never.
I never would have expected that.
I never imagined this.
One public talk had a profound effect on me.
The speaker said,
you have already dedicated your life to Jehovah.
Are you now living up to your dedication?
I can still give him something.
I'll apply for SKE.
At times, I feel so insignificant and inadequate.
However, I realize that Jehovah makes anyone who is willing to be used by him successful.
With any form of service,
our being qualified comes from God.
I learned that if Jehovah gives us an assignment,
he will also give us the skills and training we need
to be successful in the assignment.
Although I didn't have the experience needed,
Jehovah still saw something in me and gave me this assignment.
I thank Jehovah from the bottom of my heart
and view this assignment as a real blessing.
I can see how Jehovah has been helping us all along.
It's like he's holding our hand tightly saying,
don't worry, I'm right here with you.
I get to spend eight hours each day serving Jehovah
with like-minded friends who love talking about him.
It's great.
I can't think of words to describe my deep gratitude to Jehovah.
Jehovah has blessed me so much.
He has drawn me to his family.
He made me his friend.
He has used me in ways I've never imagined before.
Jehovah has made me see his hand even more as I allow him to use me.
I wake up in the morning and start my day with Jehovah
by preparing for the ministry.
Then I go out with my service partners.
We talk about Jehovah.
We think about how we can help others come closer to Jehovah.
Back home, I talk to my roommate about our ministry that day.
Then I take time for Jehovah.
I feel like I'm spending every second of every day with Jehovah.
And that alone is an enormous gift for me.